We want to add some information to an existing query and we are not sure how to do that by now,
let's find a way to solve the problem.
So this is the problem we have, we have two queries, that codes-country-region query and our Regions-FullNamess
and this region name should become part of that query as an additional column
and we know that we have something that both queries have in common,
so we see that Region-Code right here and that Region-Code right there,
so there should be kind of a way on how to connect those two queries.
The good answer is there is of course a way and the way can be found in the home ribbon, in the combine
area and here I already talked about the append queries, so that we basically add the queries next to each other,
so we add rows to say it simple and then we can also find that merge queries command and merge queries,
that's kind of the same thing like append queries with the difference that we can add columns with the
merge queries function
and that's what we want to do right here, right?
We want to add that for region name column,
now let's have a look.
If we click on to that arrow, we see that we have two options again,
we have merge queries and merge queries as new.
Now you learned already what that means,
if we want to merge the queries in a totally new query, then we use the second option. If we want to merge
queries to an existing query, then we use the first option,
so in our case we should use the first option.
But before we do that, we should take a closer look on how we can merge the queries and what things we
have to be aware of,
let's take a look. Now
if you look at the title of this upcoming illustration, you'll see two things, you'll see merge queries
and this is what we want to do
and you'll see that join kind. This join kind is quite important because this join kind defines
how the queries are merged and this can make a big difference as we learn right now.
Now the starting point are two separate queries,
we have Query 1, the left query,
important to note that and the right query, Query 2.
Now if you look at those queries, you'll see that they have something in common,
this is this ID column and that's an important note.
You can only merge queries if you have a column which is named equal and which contains values that
allow Power BI to identify the things those two queries have in common.
So you cannot merge sales and region by just selecting sales and region as a merge column,
so this has to be done with ID.
So if I talk about the selected column throughout the next minutes, I'll just talk about that ID because that's
the column that will do the merge for us.
An important note however, if you look at this ID column, you'll see that there is a difference. In the left query,
we have ABC, in the right query, we have ABBC,
so there was one role which is not kind of equal. Let's see how we can work with that
but before we do that, let's take a look at the second column, so the sales and the region because that's
the reason why we want to merge that queries because we want to see where the sales, so in which region
the sales were generated.
Having said that, let's see how we can merge the queries. Now to do that,
we have different join kinds and that's why we have to talk about that right now.
So the first join kind is an outer join and the outer join has different options,
one option is the left outer join. If you do such a left outer join, you find the following result.
So why can we find that result?
Well that's pretty easy actually. As it's called left outer join, Power BI simply start taking a
look at the ID column, the selected column you remember in the left query,
this will later be the top query in Power BI but we'll see that in a few minutes.
However Power BI now goes through that ID row by row and sees what it can find in the table that we want
to merge,
so in our case it goes to the ID, finds the ID, find the sales and find the region, USA because it can
find the ID in both queries.
Now if it goes on to B, then it finds B in the first query with the 50 but B cannot be found in the second
query,
that's why we have that and A right here.
And then we go on with the third row,
this is C
and we can find that in both queries again
and that's why we see that table.
So that's left outer query,
no that's the left outer join,
sorry for that.
Let's now take a look at another option
and as you might imagine, we also have a right outer join.
Now this works the other way round, this time the right query
is the starting point and again, Power BI goes now through the ID column but of the right query and finds
A, though for the region USA and find sales of 10 in the corresponding row with the corresponding ID
in the left query. It then goes on to the second row, here it finds BB, BB we have the region Europe,
this is fine but BB cannot be found in the left query,
that's why we have an A right here now. And for the ID C, this is clear again because we have that ID
in both the right query and the left query.
So that was the second outer join, we have a left,
we have a right,
we also have a full outer join
and as you can imagine, the full outer join simply combines what we just did with the left and right
join because we now start in the ID column in the first query,
so ABC and we know the result from the left outer join but now we also do a right outer join
and because of that, as a result we get all the IDs in one table.
Of course with the corresponding errors,
so we don't have data for ID B and the region and for ID BB for the sales.
Now that's the first join kind,
the outer join,
let's take a look at another join kind, the anti-join.
We have the anti-join again in two ways,
we have a left anti-join which looks something like this
and if you think back about the left outer join, you might see that the difference to the outer join
is that we now only see the row that cannot be found in both queries.
So in that case, this is ID B, important note, of course we start in the left column again and that's why
we don't see BB right here because it's the same logic as with the left
outer query, just vice-versa,
so now with the IDs it cannot find in the right query. The same logic can be applied to the right
anti-join,
here we only find BB because now Power BI has a look at the ID column of the right query
and finds that BB cannot be found in the left query
and that's why we have that result right here.
That's not everything,
we have one last join kind
and that's the inner join.
Now you might imagine what it is. The inner join simply joins all the IDs that can be found in both
queries,
so in our case, this is ID A and ID C, ID B or ID BB is not named right here.
So you might get loss of some data if you're not careful what join kind you are using
and that brings me back to our project because what we want to do is we want to add that for region
names now to our initial country-codes query that we imported
but as the database for the full names is that country-codes query, we are sure that we allocated each
country to a region and that's why it doesn't make a difference at the moment if we use an inner
join or a left outer join, an anti-join wouldn't work because we don't have any anti, so we can match
every ID basically to translate that into the language of that example.
Nevertheless, let's go back to our project and see how we can apply it right there.
So what we want to do right now is we want to add that region-names column to that query,
so let's do that by selecting the home ribbon, go to combine and merge queries,
click on the arrow and press merge queries and
now we have to select the country ID or I'm not sure at the moment to be honest,
let's see, I think it's the region-code.
Yes we have to select the region-code in the first query.
Now to think back about the example, the first query,
so the top query is the left query,
this might be confusing,
so left is top right here and right is bottom and that's just what it is.
However, we selected the region-code right here and we have to select the region-code right there
and as you can see down here, we selected a left outer join, we could also change that to the inner join
for instance and we can see that we matched all of our rows.
That's what I just explained,
as we build the full region-name table based on that initial codes-country-region table, we know we
are sure that we allocated all of the regions or all of the region codes to full region names.
Now that we know that,
let's press OK
and we see that we have a new column.
However this new column doesn't really look good right because we don't see any information in here
now. We can easily solve that by pressing onto that little symbol right here, like this,
now we have to decide what columns we want to display right here.
All the columns in our case, I don't think so because the region-code is already there,
we can see it right here.
So we unselect the region code and we unselect something else and that's that use the original column
name as prefix and
what happens then is that the original column name, this new column right here would be added and then
comes the region name,
so the name would be new column, region name. Not good,
so we unselect that, so the column name would be region-name, lots of names now.
So let's press OK
and now we see that we perfectly added that region-name column to our existing columns in the query.
However we are not done yet right because at the moment, we only worked in those regions-countries group
and actually we want to create a data model,
so we want to work in the DIM region query.
Now we have to add that region-names also to the DIM region query,
let's see how this works in the next video.